In addition to Parameter Store,
AWS also provides a service called Secrets Manager. And there's a
fair amount of overlap between these two offerings,
so let's quickly compare them.
So just like Parameter Store, AWS Secrets Manager is also a service
that provides centralized storage and management of,
as the name suggests, secrets.
But unlike Parameter Store,
which offers both secure string and string parameter types
for encrypted and unencrypted parameters,
Secrets Manager will automatically encrypt every parameter you store in it.
And this uses KMS just like Parameter Store. Secrets Manager also
allows you to share secrets between AWS accounts,
where Parameter Store is only within a single account.
There is also a cost associated with Secrets Manager,
which is currently 40 cents per parameter and 5 cents per 10,000 API calls.
Remember that the standard tier of Parameter Store allows you to store
10,000 parameters per region in your account for free.
So with Parameter Store offering the ability to
store encrypted parameters for free,
why would you ever choose Secrets Manager over Parameter Store?
Well,
one use case where Secrets Manager is an especially good choice is
when you're dealing with database credentials, particularly when
you're working with RDS. Secrets Manager offers something called
automatic credential rotation, which,
similar to the key material rotation we discussed for CMKs in the last module,
will update the credentials associated with your RDS
database on a schedule that you define,
which can be 30, 60, 90, or any number of days up to 365, and then
automatically apply the changes directly in RDS.
So this is great because not only do you not have
to update your application code,
you don't even need to update the secret itself anymore.
Now there is one gotcha here,
and that's whenever you enable credential rotation, that
credential is always rotated immediately.
So even if I said to rotate this credential every 90 days,
as soon as I enable it, that credential will be rotated right away.
And then it will be rotated again every 90 days after that.
And even if you aren't using RDS, Secrets Manager still allows you
to define a custom lambda function to handle credential rotation
for any other secrets you may have.
So as long as you can define the logic for how to rotate your credentials,
Secrets Manager will handle the credential rotation for you.
So now I'll show you the process for storing a secret using
Secrets Manager. In this demo, we'll store our connection
string secret in AWS Secrets Manager.
So now I'll go to Secrets Manager, and here you'll see there is a
cost associated with each secret, so 40 cents per secret per month
and 5 cents per 10,000 API calls.
I'm going to click Store a new secret, and here you see that Secrets Manager
is definitely geared towards storing database credentials.
We have options for RDS, DocumentDB, and Redshift built in.
But you see, I can also store other types of secrets,
which is what I'm going to select here. And where we were just
storing a parameter value before in Parameter Store, here we are
going to specify a key name and a value.
So I'll give my key a name of connectionstring and paste in my
string for the value here. And I can click Plaintext and see the
JSON representation of my secret.
And if I scroll down,
you see I can choose the KMS key used to encrypt this secret.
So this is just like a secure string parameter in Parameter Store.
I'll choose mycmk key again and click Next. And I'll use
the same name as before for this secret,
so /dev/dbconnectionstring.
But I could give this any name.
I'll go and skipped the description and tags and click Next.
So on this screen, we see the options for automatic rotation.
So you see I can enable it here.
And if I do enable it, I can choose the rotation interval, so 30,
60, 90 days or a custom number up to 365. And then I can select a
Lambda function to perform the rotation.
So keep in mind if I was storing RDS credentials here,
I wouldn't need to choose a Lambda function because Secrets Manager
already knows how to automatically rotate those credentials.
But don't forget that if I were to enable credential rotation here,
the credential would be rotated immediately before being
rotated again based on the interval I select.
But for this example, I'll just disable automatic rotation and click Next.
So here on this screen,
we see AWS has actually provided us with some sample code that
I could actually just paste directly into my application to
help me retrieve this secret value.
So I'll click Store, and now my secret has been created.
So finally,
I'll just go back to my command line and show you how we
retrieve this secret using the CLI.
And in this case,
the command is aws secretsmanager get‑secret‑value with
‑‑secret‑id and the name of our secret.
And here in the JSON that comes back,
you see the secret string containing our key‑value pair. And notice that
unlike with Parameter Store where we had to specify with decryption or
else we would only see an encrypted string, Secrets Manager
automatically decrypts the parameter for us.
And of course,
this only works because I have permission to use the KMS key we
specified when we created the secret, or I wouldn't be able to
see this unencrypted string at all.
So now we've seen how we can use Parameter Store and Secrets Manager to securely store and manage our secrets.